# Common Moves of Podcasting

## Podcasts I Explored:
I chose investigative podcasts for this assignment, because I had listened to them before and found them very interesting. Both podcasts follow criminal cases. The first one was Criminal, which follows a different case in every episode, which are usually short and good for quick listens. The second podcast was Someone Knows Something on CBC Radio, which follows just one case in the first season.

## Podcast one: Criminal
Criminal is an online podcast hosted by Phoebe Judge, who records short episodes and investigates a different case in each one. I listened to the first episode, which was called Animal Instincts. The episode was about a case where a woman had been found by her husband bleeding to death at the bottom of the staircase in their home. The husband ended up being convicted of the murder, but a fellow neighbor, who was a lawyer himself went a little deeper to discover and believe that an owl was actually the reason for the woman's death.

The podcast begins with a man talking, who is not the host. There is music playing in the background, giving the podcast a dramatic feel. He's telling a story about running in the woods and losing his hat, but having no idea how. The host then comes on to introduce herself as Phoebe Judge, and introduces the podcast. She quickly gets into the story. Music is still playing in the background as the describes the horrific scene of 48 year old Kathleen Peterson lying dead at the bottom of a staircase in a pool of her own blood. She then plays the 911 call her husband made when he discovered her around 3 am, thinking that she fell down the stairs. The music has stopped playing at this point, as she gives a brief summary of the trial, stating that the husband was convicted of her murder.

Music plays again, indicating a transition. Phoebe starts to speak again, talking about a next door neighbor and lawyer who followed the case very carefully and came up with his own idea of what happened. She recites the theory that he gave to the police, saying that an owl was responsible for her death, by attacking her when she was outside and ripping hair and flesh off her scalp, causing her to panic and run inside where she slipped at the bottom of the stairs and knocked herself unconscious. She then plays a recording of the neighbor explaining how this was possible. While he is talking, she occasionally interjects to explain. Once he is done talking, music plays again, indicating another transition.

We then find out that the blood analyst in the trial lied about his credentials, so the husband is now free from jail awaiting another trial. She transitions again with music and proceeds to talk about man and animal. She introduces her producer, and then plays a long recording of a story he is telling about man vs animal. Throughout his whole story, music occasionally plays whenever he pauses. Once he finishes his story, the music gets louder. Phoebe speaks, ending the podcast as the music ends. 


## Podcast two: Someone Knows Something
Someone Knows Something is a podcast on CBC Radio, hosted by David Ridgen. This podcast focuses on one case alone the whole season. I listened to episode one, titled The Family. The case in season one was about the disappearance of a five year old boy from a fishing trip with his father and brother, back in 1972 in the hometown of Ridgen. In the first episode, Ridgen talked with the family to try to figure out what was going on the day the boy went missing, how it might have happened, and what their theories are.
